I think of Jesus in that last supper when he called the disciples and he says, oh, how I've looked forward to this time together.
And that's how I felt all day today.
I just couldn't wait to get to a time of fellowship with us together that come in here and fellowship and worship and the word and then some food.
And it's a short message, but I don't want to miss the opportunity to bring the message that God would have for us tonight here with us.
And of course, we're going to read some of the Christmas story.
We're going to read some of the other.
scriptures with us so would you join me as we pray again father this is your house this is your place this is holy ground this is where the word became flesh and well among us because you are the word
And you stepped out of heaven and you became the Word and you were birthed there in Bethlehem.
And that Word walked in perfection all the way to Golgotha so that you might redeem us.
It started here 2,000 years ago there in Bethlehem and it continues on.
It's moving, it's living, it's powerful, this Word.
So Lord, would you let the Word come alive as we celebrate this Christmas Eve together and then into the Christmas day tomorrow, Lord, remembering what you've done?
And we pray this in your name.
Amen.
Luke chapter 2 verse 1 through 7 to read.
And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered.
The census first took place while Canarias
was governing Syria so all went to be registered everyone to his own city Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea to the city of David which is called Bethlehem because he was of the house of the lineage of David
to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was the child.
So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered.
And she brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger because there was no room for them in the inn.
The beautiful incarnation here walking
Here on this ballad dirt we call the earth stepping out of heaven, the perfect God into this earth that we live.
And if you've been with us for the last couple of weeks and if not, it's easy to pick up with us.
We have been looking at for the last two weeks Ephesians chapter one.
just the first six verses, beautiful entryway into Christmas and the celebration.
And we see three things that we've been looking at and soaking in.
And one is that we're saints.
And then secondly, we see that we are the chosen.
And then today we're gonna touch on that we are predestined to adoption before the foundation of the world.
I don't know what your Christmas may be like for you right now.
Everybody comes in with something different.
Everybody's Christmas, some is high joy and celebration because that's just where life is for you right now.
But you know, for some I know you come here and you're hurting.
There's a loneliness and there's an emptiness and there's a wondering where the Lord may be in your life.
Well, one of the things that will be sure and true
This Christmas Eve as with all 2000 before this Christmas Eve is this word that we just read in Ephesians is sure and true.
And it was established and settled 2000 years ago when he came.
You are a saint.
You are the chosen.
And you have been predestined for adoption before the foundation of the world.
A saint is a dedicated one who is set apart.
The chosen is the one that he picks and says, this one's mine.
And then we'll talk about this glorious place of predestination of adoption.
You ever stop and think of, um, why a crib?
Why a baby?
Why a son?
Well, we read the word enough and
go through the word enough, we know it's relational.
It's relatable.
He wants to relate to us.
He wants to show us, I came, I was birth like you.
I walked this earth like you.
I know what it's like to be loved.
I know what it's like to be hated.
I know what it's like to be lonely.
I know what it's like to be filled with the joy of fellowship.
I know what it is and fill in all the blanks that come with it.
And he came so that he can relate to us.
And we understand when we're going through anything, you can relate because you lived it out just
like we have to live it out.
You were God, but you were you were still a man.
You were the God man.
But then there's this place that takes us.
It's relational.
And what he wants to show to us is that he wants to show us the relation of a father and a son.
And if you and you may go, well, that's really profound.
But if you would consider this, if Jesus didn't come as a son, we would never understand the relationship of a father to a son when he considers it in relation to us as sons and daughters onto him.
There's a father who knows what it was like
to have a son, the joy of a son, and then the loss of a son.
We have a son who knew what it was like to have a father and to seek the father's affection and to hear the words that the father would say and the gift that would come.
This is my son whom I'm well pleased.
And then to start putting it together and we will hear in the short time that we have here today is how he puts that into, there's a father who desperately seeks
the relation with sons and daughters.
Just like he did with his son, he demonstrated it and declared it.
And there's a son who was the God man who relates to the father, but then relates to us amazingly as a brother.
We have a brother who's God and came and walked this earth.
And then when we start looking at these things and we see the great gift that was giving as Jesus the son, then it also relates us to the giver and what he gave his only begotten son Camden got a gift this week.
It was a very unique gift, you know, and that was the point of it to be this unique gift that came from a friend.
And I said to him, I go, you know, Camden, every time you look at this gift, you'll appreciate the uniqueness, but you will never look at this gift that you won't think of the giver.
And that is one of the most beautiful things when the
uniqueness of the gift is given, and here's God given the uniqueness of the gift of his son, Jesus Christ.
And when we look at Jesus, there's this relational connection that takes us up to this place of the giver, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son.
As we read on in the story of Luke chapter two,
Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields keeping watch over the flock by night and behold an angel the Lord stood before them and the glory of the Lord shone around them and they were greatly afraid.
Then the angel said to them do not be afraid for behold I bring you glad tidings of great joy which
which will be to all people.
For there's born to you this day in the city of David a savior who is Christ the Lord and this will be assigned to you.
You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger and suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying glory to God in the highest and on earth peace goodwill towards men.
You know as I think about our calling
in Ephesians chapter one, these first six verses that were saints.
And the word means to be dedicated, to be set apart.
That were the chosen that he picked us and said, this one's mine.
And then to put the exclamation point and you're adopted before the foundation of the world.
And I go, well, that's us.
Then there has to be this relation of Jesus being the same and sure it's easy to see.
He was the dedicated one.
He was set apart to become the Lamb of God who would take away our sin.
Holy thing, perfect and pure.
He was the chosen and the beautiful thing and the power of it as we read through, and I hope this can
Penetrate into your heart as you consider this is I still am always in awe of it That he would say for the joy that was set before me I'll go to the cross for ray For you for me
Therefore we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and sin which so easily ensnares us and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking on to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy
We sang that song, Unspeakable Joy.
This is what he sings.
The joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And the singing of God, Zephaniah 317, the Lord your God, in your midst the mighty one will save.
He will rejoice over you with gladness.
He will quiet you with his love.
He will rejoice over you with singing.
Just pray the quietness of the love of God upon us this Christmas Eve and then to hear the singing.
It's almost hard for me to imagine, but I believe the word.
I have to take it by faith and my faith as I study this word said, you settled that settles it.
You sing over me and you kind of did the joy to go to this cross.
And so though you were the chosen,
Son to go, you gladly stepped up and says, let me, it's worth it.
I want them, I want to bring them before you father to say, here's the reward of my work that I did on the cross, that I can present you a son and a daughter there before the throne of God there in heaven.
And then for the relational as we
um speak of this predestined before predestined adopted and I just want to read that in its context for us and then we'll be having communion here in just a moment if you didn't get a communion element hang tight we'll get you one Paul Ephesians one chapter one Paul an apostle Jesus Christ by the will of God
to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus, graced you in peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy without blame before him in love.
Having predestined us to adoption
as sons and you can fill in daughters by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will to the praise of the glory of his grace by which he made us accepted in the beloved predestined us to adoption you know there is an emotion we've just read
the heart of the father giving his son the son saying send me let me go I'll do this it's worth it for the joy and the singing but you know there's something as powerful of that emotion there's a law behind it an unbreakable law this is written the Ephesians is written in the Roman Empire and in the Roman Empire
Regardless, Jew, Gentile, Roman law, if you were adopted, you could not be disowned.
It was a law that stood forever and your inheritance was guaranteed.
You know, amazingly, that wasn't the same application for a son or a daughter born into the family.
But if you were adopted by Roman law, you got full inheritance and you could not be disowned.
You were a son and daughter for life.
Reminds me of the story of two siblings, one natural birth by mom and dad, the other adopted.
They were in a fight with one another and arguing.
And the natural born said to the adopted, well,
Don't forget, you were adopted.
To which the adopted one looked and said, yeah, well, mom and dad wanted me.
They're stuck with you.
My friend, when I worked out at the Space Center, he had a natural born and he had an adopted daughter, two of them.
And we were both young, you know, so I didn't know wisdom and all these type of things.
And it was kind of a new understanding for me.
And I remember sitting one day where, you know, on a break and I said to him, so Kelly, you got two daughters there at the same age, one's adopted, one's the natural birth, like what?
What's that like?
Just tell me I'd love to hear it.
And his answer, it wasn't some long answer.
It was like the instant answer that came out of him because it just overflowed from his heart.
He goes, you know what, Ray?
It's amazing.
I can't tell their kisses apart.
And it was just something powerful.
Their kiss, both of them, moved my heart.
I read a story last week of a new mother with her mom.
She was adopted.
Here she is a mother now.
And she had this, she had her baby and they're just gushing over the baby and looking, the two of them together.
And then the daughter says, you know, mom,
I just can't understand how I ended up with a black haired baby because I'm blonde and, you know, my husband, he's blonde.
And the mother said to her, she goes, well, honey, your dad, he has, your dad, he has black hair.
And she looks, she goes, mom, you know, you remember,
You adopted me.
And the mother blushed and goes, you know, I always forget that.
To which the daughter says, you know, one of the greatest words ever spoken to me, as mom would say, such a thing in the heart that they would have for one another.
You know, we live in a great place.
If you've ever get the chance to do it,
Maybe this would be the week to do it, the opportunity to do it, to go to Fort McHenry.
And there is something powerful there at Fort McHenry.
And you know the story of Fort McHenry, it's the war 1812.
We declared and brought victory in the, you know, revolution war.
Britain was really kind of
read the history book, they were kind of distracted really during that battle.
They had, they stayed distracted for another couple of 20 years as they were fighting, dealing with France and stuff like that.
Well, come 1812, they go, it's time for us to go back and teach these young lions a lesson.
And so they came with the strongest Navy armada that the world had ever known.
And they said, we're going to come in, we're going to cruise up to Chesapeake.
We're going to take Washington DC, which they did.
They took Washington DC.
They burned the White House and they burned the Treasury.
Then we're going to continue up and we're going to lay siege to the port in Baltimore and we are going to choke them out that they will be financially crippled and they'll never be able to recover from this and they'll have to yield back to us.
And so of course everybody knows they're coming.
There was no mystery about that, no sudden surprise attack.
And the general, Armistead, and you can see the remnant of Fort Armistead when you clearly see it when we had our key bridge.
But you can still see it today if you ride to the shoreline.
And he said,
I want you to make me a flag so big that when the Brits come in their fleet, there will be no doubt that they can see this flag flying over Fort McHenry.
That flag ended up being 42 by 30 feet made right there in a warehouse in Baltimore right here in our backyard.
And you know the story because we sing it.
And so the bombardment began, the attack began, even though Fort McHenry had stationary guns, the advanced technology of the Brits were far beyond what the Americans had at the time.
And from their ship, they could still out-shoot the American cannons.
And just like the song said, it was
It was bombs bursting in air.
It was a massive attack that came against Fort McHenry that happened and there is the blasting.
But you know the song and you know how it played out.
after the brits would bomb, bomb, bomb and they would move closer to lay the final siege and then there would be a retaliation and then push them back and they went back and forth, back and forth all night and all night and the whole night turned into this cloud of smoke and fire and no one could see what the fort looked like at all until as the song would say at twilight, last gleaming.
When the smoke cleared and history will declare, that flag was still standing.
And there's a beautiful and powerful part that I speak about that and I think of that flag.
There was a war that was fought.
There was a battle that had to be decided winter loss.
And there was a flag that was made to declare, let the enemy know we're not going anywhere, we will not yield.
And I want you to see this from as far as way as your canon can reach that we got this flag and we plan on going nowhere and we do not plan to yield in any way at all.
And I just think about those things and I go, you know, that term predestined for adoption.
It's a law.
There's an emotion behind it, but there is a law.
And that word predestined for adoption cannot be undone.
There's a legal, there's a legality behind it, but there's a war that had to be fought to make it solidified.
there on the cross, but 33 years before that a babe would come and be born and birthed and then he would live the perfect sinless life so that he could become the Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world.
When you go to Fort McHenry and you get that opportunity to go, you should just take the opportunity
You walk in, you walk into kind of an auditorium.
It's not a very large auditorium, but then they put a video up and they share and they show the video.
And there's a wall with a curtain.
And if you've been there, you know, then when the video's over and the speech is over and the talk is over, it's just short 10 minutes or so.
Then the curtain starts to move.
And the curtain starts to clear.
And behind the curtain is a pure glass wall.
And behind that glass wall just off, you know, you know, a hundred yards or more is that old glory just waving.
And it like takes up the whole glass wall.
And I'll tell you what, I don't think there's an American in this room who will be not moved in their heart.
That's my country.
There's men and women who are willing to go die.
for this flag.
Brave men and women stood at Fort McHenry and they took everything that the enemy had to offer.
And I just see the perfect illustration of everything that the devil threw at Jesus.
Everything he threw at the heart of the father who had to watch it, his only begotten son, so that there could be a declaration
predestined, adopted before the foundation of the world to make you a saint, to make you the chosen, to make you adopted in the beloved.
And I think of the father, what he was willing to pay.
Matthew three at the baptism of Jesus is my son, I'm well pleased.
Matthew 17 there on the mount of transfiguration where Jesus literally transfigured into a light, a clear light.
And you know what I believe by that?
that He lived that perfect light 33 years, that He could have walked into heaven based on His good works, because they were perfect.
Never broke a commandment.
He could have walked in and on His own works.
And so could anyone if they could keep the whole law.
But Jesus stood down and came down.
And from that point when you read Matthew 17,
all the way to Golgotha he was like Flint marching towards that cross because there was a price that he was willing to pay that we couldn't and he marched all the way and stood down walking in the glory because he didn't want to go into glory without you and me and then I think of what the son who relates to us because there's a father it's relational but it's relatable but it's relational that he would hear
My God, my God, why has thou forsaken me?
The perfect Son forsaken, and He can relate to anything and everything, but God sends out this relational of, I know what it is to have a son, and therefore I know what my heart is and my desire to have the son and daughter, and that's you and me.
And there was a war that was fought that I was willing to go the distance for, and behind them
Babin Bethlehem and the crib is a cross.
And I'd like to enter in and celebrate the great declaration that he has given.
If you didn't, I always say that.
Who comes with a communion element?
But if you don't have a communion element, would you raise your hand and we get you a communion element that you might join us in communion
And then we're going to have the worship team come back here shortly after, or we're going to have the kids.
We're going to do communion.
Then we're going to have the kids share with us.
You might have to help anyone open theirs.
Everybody good?
1 Corinthians chapter 11 verse 23.
For I receive from the Lord that which I delivered to you
that the Lord Jesus on the same night in which he was betrayed took bread and when he had given thanks he broke it and said take eat this is my body which is broken for you do this in remembrance of me.
And in the same manner he took the cup after supper saying this cup is the new covenant in my blood.
This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me for as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup you proclaim the Lord's death till he
comes.
Lord, we come for a Christmas Eve celebration and a remembrance, a communion celebration that remembers this flag that makes a declaration predestined for adoption.
But there was a war that had to be fought to solidify that.
It's beyond our understanding before the foundations of the world, but we know there was a war that was fought and you were willing to come for the joy that was set before you that you might buy us and redeem us and that you were willing to come and be the perfect lamb of God and trade places that we can lay our hands upon your head for the sin that we transgressed against you and you would trade places and take our place on the cross.
so that we could take this place as a saint, the chosen, adopted as sons and daughters.
It was because of a babe that was born, the God man.
So we take this bread and do it in remembrance of you.
And likewise, in the same manner, this cup
It's beautiful in that he calls it the cup of the new covenant.
The word also means testament.
We have an old testament.
You read that and it's the law written against us.
We're all found guilty.
Then there's this new covenant based on everything that we just said.
The war that Jesus would go fight, the father willing to send his son into the battle.
So that we might, through one drop of the precious blood of Jesus Christ, be cleansed from our sin and be secured in our place as sons and daughters.
There's a law behind it as well as an emotion.
And Lord, you gave this cup and you said, do this in remembrance.
What a night to do it right here, right now on a Christmas Eve.
As we remember, you came.
We remember why you came.
And we celebrate the victory that you came.
And you died.
But you rose again on the third day.
And now you're seated at the right hand of the throne of God, living to make intercession, receiving us.
We take this cup and we do it in remembrance of you.
Thank you, Jesus.
I bless you, Jesus.
I pray a blessing upon my brothers and sisters, Lord.
I thank you for the gift that was given to us.
I thank you that you would give us a night such as this to do this in remembrance of you and that we can come and freely have this place of worship one with another.
And Lord, I pray again that no one would leave here
Not knowing that you've seen them and not knowing that this word was for them.
What you think of them, what you're willing to do to have them.
And if there's anyone here tonight and you've never made that commitment and asked Jesus Christ to be your Lord and savior, we're gonna be around tonight.
You can pray it right now in your seat, saying, Lord, forgive me of my sin.
Thank you for sending your son.
I received that by faith and now I turn to follow you.
But we're here to talk anything you want to talk about, but it's that simple.
And God will come and show up and speak to you and walk with you and we'll be here to do the same with you.
And Father, I thank you that you've given the gift and we get to celebrate it in your precious name.
Amen.